**The app router in Nextjs is built entirely on RSC architecture. All these features are built into the latest version of Nextjs**
## Takeaways
- React Server Components offer a new approach to building React apps by separating components into two: Server Components and Client Components
 
- Server Components run exclusively on the server - they fetch data and prepare content without sending code to the browser
 
- This makes your app faster because users download less code
 
However, they can't handle any interactions
 
- Client Components, on the other hand, run in the browser and manage all the interactive parts like clicks and typing
 
- They can also get an initial server render for faster page loads

## React Server components

evolution of react CSR--> SSR ---> Suspense SSR---> RSC

- represents a new architechture, which leverages the strengths of both server and client environments to optimize efficiency, load times and interactivity..

- Introduces dual models:
    - client components
    - server components

This distiction is based on the environment they would execute and the specific systems they are designed to interact with, for eg: browser apis, hooks, goes in client components.

### Client components
- first rendered on the server then on the client.
- in nextjs, use "use client" to differentiate the components as a CC.

### Server components
- Server Components represent a new type of React component specifically designed to operate exclusively on the server
- And unlike client components, their code stays on the server and is never downloaded to the client 
- This design choice offers multiple benefits to React applications

**Benefits**
- **Smaller bundle sizes**: Since Server Components stay on the server, all their dependencies stay there too. This is fantastic for users with slower connections or less powerful devices since they don't need to download, parse, and execute that JavaScript.
 Plus, there's no hydration step, making your app load and become interactive faster
- **Direct access to server-side resources**: Server Components **can talk directly to databases and file systems**, making data fetching super efficient without any client-side processing.
They use the server's power and proximity to data sources to manage compute-intensive rendering tasks.
- **Enhanced security**: Since SC only run on server, sensitive data like API keys never leave the server.
- **Improved data fetching**: since SC are closer to data source, this can improve performance by reducing time it takes to fetch data needed for rendering.
- **Caching**: can cache the results and reuse them for different users and requests
- **Faster initial load & FCP**: By generating HTML on the server, users see your content immediately- no waiting for JS to download and execute.
- **Improved SEO**
- **Efficient Streaming**: SC can split the rendering process into chunks that stream to client as they're ready. This means users start seeing content faster instead of waiting for entire page to render on the server.


Server components handle data fetching and static rendering, client components take care of rendering the interactive elements.


 

### rsc payload

- these files have a special JSOn format are generated by react for each route and represent your virtual DOM in a super compavct way using abbreviations and internal references.
- fr server components it also includes the actual rendered result.
- CC rsc payload is a bit different,it has placeholders showing where the CC should go + refernces to their JS files


