---
id: cok7r8be46nqy5mzl65l8l9
title: Metadata
desc: ''
updated: 1751368289513
created: 1751368289513
---
# Routing metadata

- metadata api is powerful feature that lets us define metadata for each page(good for SEO)
- 2 wats to handle metadata in layout.tsx or page.tsx files.
  - static metadata object
  - dynamic generateMetadata function

  ## Configuring metadata
  **metadata rules**
  - both layout, page.tsx can export metadata. Layout metadata applies to all its pages, while page metadata is applied tp that page.
  - metadata follows top-down order. starting from root level.
  - they merge together if metadata exists in multiple pages. For matching properties the page metadata overrides layout metadata.
  - does not work with client components(that have use-client directive). To handle metadata in client components, separate the logic that requires client component as a separate component and import it in page.tsx.

### Static metadata
  ```tsx
  export const metadata = {
  title: "Next.js",
  description: "Generated by Next.js",
};
  ```

### Dynamic metadata
  - when metadata is dependent on dynamic info like current route params, external data or metadata defined in parent segments.

  ```tsx

  import { Metadata} from "next"

  export const generateMetadata = async({params}: Props): Promise<Metadata> => {
    const id= (await params).productId;
    return {
      title: `Product ${id}`
    }
  }

  type Props = {
    params: Promise<{productId: string}>
  }
  ```

  ## Title metadata

  The title property in metadata can be defined as :
  - a string
  - an object : it can have 3 keys:
        - default
        - template
        - absolute

### String title
  ```tsx
  export const metadata = {
  title: "Next.js",
};
```
### Object title

- **default**: the default title is defined in layout.tsx, the children page that does not have a title metadata, defaults to this value.
```tsx
  export const metadata = {
  title: {
    default: "Next.js Tutorial"
  }
};
```
- **template** : Consistent way of formatting the title. It allows us to have prefix/suffix. 
for eg, if the layout.tsx has the following metadata
```tsx
  export const metadata = {
  title: {
    default: "Next.js Tutorial",
    template: "%s | ByteSizedFrontend"
  }
};
```

Now if the children page has title metadata = "Routing", the title in the actual page metadata will come as: `Routing | ByteSizedFrontend`

- **absolute**: to breakthrough the template, use absolute in children route metadata
for eg, if the layout metadata remains same as above and I have the child page.tsx as:
```tsx
  export const metadata = {
  title: {
    absolute: "Routing example"
  }
};
```
The final title would appear as `Routing example`.
